Feature gcloud manage secrets (#309)
devonfw/hangar: documentation/gcloud/upload-secret-manager.asciidoc

Then we will merge this branch in the appropriate branch (provided in `-b` flag).

== Prerequisites

This script will commit and push the corresponding shell script and configuration file into your repository, so please be sure your local repository is up-to-date (i.e you have pulled latest changes with `git pull`).

=== Usage

```
add-secret.sh \
  -d <local directory> \
  -f <local file path> \
  -v <value> \
  -r <remote file path> \
  -b <target branch> \
  [-n <secret name>] \
  [-p <pipelines list>]
```

=== Flags
```
-d, --local-directory       [Required] Local directory of your project."
-f, --local-file-path       [Required] Local path of the file you want to upload.(mutually exclusive with -v)"
-v, --value                 [Required] Value of the secret. (mutually exclusive with -f)"
-r, --remote-file-path      [Required if -f flag set] Path where the secret will be downloaded inside the pipeline (with the file name)."
-b, --target-branch         [Required] Name of the branch to which the merge will target."

> -n, --secret-name           [Required if -v flag set] Name of the secret as it will appear in the secret manager. if not set, we use the name of the file given with '-f'."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-n, --secret-name           [Required if -v flag set] Name of the secret as it will appear in the secret manager. For the file case, we use the name of the file given with '-f'."

```

-p, --pipelines                        List of the pipelines the secret needs to be downloaded. if not set, it will be downloaded for every pipeline.
```
;

> NOTE: the name given with the `-n` has to be compliant with the regex [a-zA-Z0-9_]. (if flag not set and file name given with `-f` is not compliant with the regex, it will be modified to be compliant with it)

Reviewer: According to this in add-secret.sh:
```
# If secret name given we check that is compliant with the regex \w
  [[ "$secretName" =~ ^[a-zA-Z0-9_]*$ ]] || { echo -e "${red}Error: The secret name is not compliant with the regex ^[a-zA-Z0-9_]\$*. (only letters number and '_' are accepted in the name)" >&2; echo -ne "${white}" >&2; exit 2; }
```
The modification to be compliant with the regex is not implement. I do not find it necessary BTW.

> NOTE: If '-v' and '-f' are both set, '-f' is choosen.

Author: This is a topic to discussed, but I know in the other scripts of Hangar when this can happen, we set priority between flags

> NOTE: If '-v' and '-f' are both set, '-f' is choosen.

Reviewer: Then, it is consistent. Resolved.

> = Upload File as secret in the secret manager of Google Cloud
> 
> In this section we will create entries in the secret manager that will be downloaded in the pipelines that we need. +
> Those secrets can either be secret files or secret vars.
> 
> To upload this file or var we will need to create a branch called `feature/add-secret` to create/update a configuration file containing the information about the secrets to download in the pipelines.
> 
> Then we will merge this branch in the appropriate branch (provided in `-b` flag).
> 
> == Prerequisites
> 
> This script will commit and push the corresponding shell script and configuration file into your repository, so please be sure your local repository is up-to-date (i.e you have pulled latest changes with `git pull`).
> 
> === Usage
> 
> ```
> add-secret.sh \
>   -d <local directory> \
>   -f <local file path> \
>   -v <value> \
>   -r <remote file path> \
>   -b <target branch> \
>   [-n <secret name>] \
>   [-p <pipelines list>]
> ```
> 
> === Flags
> ```
> -d, --local-directory       [Required] Local directory of your project."
> -f, --local-file-path       [Required] Local path of the file you want to upload.(mutually exclusive with -v)"
> -v, --value                 [Required] Value of the secret. (mutually exclusive with -f)"
> -r, --remote-file-path      [Required if -f flag set] Path where the secret will be downloaded inside the pipeline (with the file name)."
> -b, --target-branch         [Required] Name of the branch to which the merge will target."
> -n, --secret-name           [Required if -v flag set] Name of the secret as it will appear in the secret manager. For the file case, we use the name of the file given with '-f'."
> 
> -p, --pipelines                        List of the pipelines the secret needs to be downloaded. if not set, it will be downloaded for every pipeline.
> ```
> ;
> NOTE: the name given with the `-n` has to be compliant with the regex [a-zA-Z0-9_]*. (if flag not set and file name given with `-f` is not compliant with the regex, it will be modified to be compliant with it)
> 
> NOTE: If '-v' and '-f' are both set, '-f' is choosen.
> 
> === Examples
> 
> ==== Adding a secret file
> 
> add-secret.sh -d /depots/test-quarkus/ -f ../path/to/secretFile.txt -r .pipelines/config/secretFile.txt -n secretFile -b develop -p "test-quarkus,build-quarkus"
> 
> ==== Adding secret variable
> 
> add-secret.sh -d /depots/test-quarkus/ -n secretVar -v secretValue -b develop -p "test-quarkus,build-quarkus"

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
= Upload files or variables as secrets in Google Cloud Secret Manager

In this section we will create secrets in Secret Manager that will be made available in the pipelines that need them, either as files or as environment variables.

To make this happen, in addition to creating an entry in Secret Manager, it is required to create/update a configuration file in the project repository containing the information about the secrets and their scope pipeline-wise. This process will follow the project workflow, so a new branch named `feature/add-secret` will be created and the required changes will be pushed to it.

Then, the new branch will be merged into the appropriate branch (provided in `-b` flag).

The script located at `scripts/pipelines/gcloud/add-secret.sh` will assist you in this process.

== Prerequisites

This script will commit and push the corresponding shell script and configuration file into your repository, so please be sure your local repository is up-to-date (i.e you have pulled latest changes with `git pull`).

== Uploading secrets using provided script

=== Usage

```
add-secret.sh \
  -d <local directory> \
  -f <local file path> \
  [-r <remote file path>] \
  [-n <secret name>] \
  -v <value> \
  -b <target branch> \
  [-p <pipelines list>]
```

=== Flags
```
-d, --local-directory       [Required] Local directory of your project."
-f, --local-file-path       [Required, unless -v] Local path of the file to be uploaded. Takes precedence over -v.
-r, --remote-file-path      [Required, if -f] File path (in pipeline context) where the secret will be downloaded.
-n, --secret-name           [Required, if -v] Name for the secret in Secret Manager. If not specified (when optional), file name is used as default. The name must comply with the regex [a-zA-Z0-9_].
-v, --value                 [Required, unless -f] Value of the secret.
-b, --target-branch         [Required] Name of the branch to which the merge will target.
-p, --pipelines                        List of pipelines where the secret will be made available. By default, all pipelines.
```

NOTE: If `-n` flag is not provided and the file name of `-f` is not compliant with the regex, it will be modified to be so.

=== Examples

==== Adding a secret file

```
./add-secret.sh -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/project -f ../path/to/secretFile.txt -r .pipelines/config/secretFile.txt -n secretFile -b develop -p "build-pipeline,test-pipeline"
```

==== Adding secret variable

```
./add-secret.sh -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/project/ -n secretVar -v secretValue -b develop -p "build-pipeline,test-pipeline"
```
````
